All right so I have a challenge for you in this lecture.
So we want to take the things that we learned about the map and the things that we learned about finding
the user's location and merge them together.
So I want you to make an app that will track the user's location so when they open the app for the very
first time it will show where they are on a map.
Use one of those cool little red markers and then if they ever change the location update that marker
to be wherever it is that they are OK.
So this is a challenge for you because I believe you have the tools that you need to get all this done
that might be a few things that you have to google but you can totally do this.
So as a challenge go ahead and hit pause now go do it on your own.
OK.
So hopefully that went well for you.
I'm going to walk you through just in case you ran into some issues or had questions just want to see
how I did it.
So we're going to start a new Android studio project and I'm going to go ahead and call this map and
location demo.
We want Android at least 23 there and then I will start with the Google Maps activity because I want
access all that ass awesome map setup right like it creates the fragment and it's all there it starts
to code about making an annotation.
Great stuff there.
So step number one for us is we've got to include our API so you can go back to our previous project
or for me.
Luckily I have this API key right here ready to go so I'm just going to go ahead and copy that.
OK.
And I'm going to come back to our project and remember that I'll just put this right here.
Now it's important to remember that if you're using your key here you've got to make sure that you've
either updated it with your new package that you're working with here.
Right like if you're to Android apps and you do all this stuff but I just recommend putting on one so
that you can use this API key for all your different Android apps.
Again when you push to the apple or to the Google Play store you want to restrict it to just your app
for the time being.
This is OK.
All right so once you've got that in place let's go ahead and move back to our project here.
Now the next thing that we're going to want to make sure that we have connected is the permission in
order to use the map.
But in fact are not a map a user's location.
But when we start with an android or a Google Maps activity it automatically asks this for us so puts
that inside the Android manifest so we don't even have to worry about that so that's pretty nice that
we can just close out of that and not have to worry about it anymore.
So the next thing that we want to do is set up our classic location manager and our location service.
So we're going to go up here or listener excuse me sort of first going to make a location manager that
will call location manager.
We're going to make a location listener will call location listener.
So now that we have access to those we want them to be all set up inside of our own create method here.
So in the uncreate first we'll set up the manager will say location manager is equal to this get system
service and inside of here want to do capital context dot location service and we need to make sure
that we cast this appropriately by saying this should be a location manager.
All right.
Next up for us we want to update or set up the location listener will say location listener is equal
to a new location listener and this adds all that code there for us.
So inside of here rather than doing a blog let's sort of mix things up a little bit.
Let's go ahead and use a toast instead.
So we'll just go ahead and type capital toast.
Make a text.
And first what we're going to provide is our maps.
Activity this so we make sure that you know it's going to the correct place there so that's a little
bit different that we've done with some toast.
Next thing that we're going to do is we're going to get our current location and we are going to take
that location turn it into a string that's what we want to show in the toast.
Lastly we can decide how long we want this toast to show for.
So I'm going to do.
Length short.
That's my favorite and I'm not going to forget this time.
I'm going to do a show on the end so that this toast actually shows up.
I swear every time I make one I think well didn't that work.
Well because I never showed it.
That's what the issue was.
So with that in place after we have the location manager and the listener all set up they will need
a semi-colon there.
Then it's time for us to see if you know the user has given us permission and if not we need to go request
it right.
All that good information.
So something that I do want to point out here is let's say a user is not using the you know at least
Android marshmallow which is what we've required here or at least is what we're building here.
What we can do is we can do a cool little if statement where we say if and the thing that we're going
to check here for is what version of Android they're running so we're going to say capital build not
capital.
And this is an all caps version dot and we want to get the SDK and sort of say if this thing is less
than 23 meaning that's the you know version we had chosen when we created this project they're saying
if it's less than that we don't have to go through the whole process of manually asking for the location.
We just have to say hey.
Location Manager.
You know go get updates and all that good stuff and it's going to automatically ask the user.
So this is where we could say location manager that request location updates and we'll go ahead and
pass in our location manager dot GPS provider Khama will do zero and zero because we want all the updates
will pass and location listener.
OK so we've got all those pieces in there ready to rock and roll.
And let's see here call to check oh so we've got to make sure that we have the permission check.
So.
Well before we do all this we're going to do this in a separate step here so we're going to give him
the lead that just for a second here.
So we're going to do an else in this situation.
So we're going to say if we weren't able to go ahead and get this what we want to do is we want to check
and see if we've gotten permission.
So we're going to come down here and say if and this is where we'll do our check and say context compact
check self permission and inside of here we're going to pass this and then we're going to give the manifest
not permission.
And this is where we want to access the fine location.
So we're going to see if this thing is not equal to the Permission granted so we're going to say package
manager permission granted and look at that it already has it sort of queued up for us.
So good we get that checked there make sure that everything's ready to rock and roll then if that is
the case that you know we didn't get permission we need to go and request it.
So we're going to say activity compact request permissions and we'll go ahead and provide this K and
then with that then ask for the manifest not permission.
And this is where we want to get to the Access fine location.
Excellent.
And with that.
Excuse me we did this a little bit out of place so before we do this manifest stuff this is where we
want to say we need a new string array and we'll do our opening curly bracket there for that.
And the one there.
Then lastly we just need a number for this.
We're going to put in the number one.
OK.
So we've got that there.
And we're going to provide an ELSE situation.
So on this else it's basically saying hey if they've already given us permission then we just want to
go ahead and say you know what.
Go ahead and request location services all that good stuff so go ahead and paste that there.
All right so now with this in place let's go ahead and give our app a quick run.
All right so we have our request showing up here but I'm not going to say allow just yet.
I'm going to come back to our code and I want to write the code for if someone is you know has provided
the yes or no answer to that question I'm hopefully not going to squash my opportunity here.
So we're going to type out on request permission.
Result.
OK.
So this brings in that huge method and what we're going to do inside of here is first we're going to
I'm going to show you how you can work with that request code if you'd like.
So right we had given this the request code of the number one right here so we can do a quick check
on that and just say OK if request code is equal to the number one that means that we can move forward
because we're working with the appropriate request because this could be asking for all different kinds
of permissions and you know these request codes is how we keep track of that.
Again we only have one but this is probably just a little safe thing to do.
Next thing that we want to do is see if they said yes to us.
So we're going to say if let's get that all set up and we need Grant results length is greater than
zero.
And we also want to check and see if Grant results at the zero position me in that first object in the
array is equal to package manager not permission granted.
OK.
So this does our checks to see if they've gone ahead and given that to us.
We also need to do another check just like we have down below here so I'm going to go ahead and copy
that.
We go ahead and give us some space so we can actually see what we're doing.
Okay.
We're going to see if we can get this we need to change this to see if this is equal to.
Permission granted.
So if the permission has been granted then that we are now safe to say let's go ahead and check the
location.
So we're in a location manager request location updates.
And again we'll just say Location Manager dot GPX Yes provider 0 0 and we'll put in our location Lessner.
So that's got everything that we need inside of there.
Let's go ahead and then we are getting some errors here and wondering if I don't have enough ending
curly brackets.
There we go.
Looks like that fixed the situation.
So let's go ahead and run this and we'll see if we can get an update about this information via a toast.
So go ahead.
Wait for the app to open.
I'm going to wait until this shows up with the app in the background because I don't want to get all
Punkt out again.
And we're going to try loading this one more time yes restart the app
it when we don't even have to open up blog yet since we're doing this via toast OK.
So for whatever reason this just absolutely refuses to show me the app until I say allow for this.
Well go ahead and do that.
And let's let's open up the app here.
So we've called this map and location.
Oh no it doesn't.
The names are too long there.
All right well we've written the code that it should work.
I always botch that.
I guess I should have just waited to run it until I was ready to try that all out.
And if you ever want to get that situation again you can always delete the app from your phone and that'll
do that.
But let's go ahead into our menu here and on the emulator here let's go ahead and send some latitude
and longitude and look at that.
It shows up right there inside of the toast just like we were hoping for.
Excellent stuff.
OK.
So that's showing up.
That's you know definitely a step in the right direction.
But what we want to do is wherever the user's location is we want to move this little marker to be in
that location.
So what we're going to do is we're going to come down here and and I guess something that I should also
mention we don't want to run this code with the location manager and everything until we actually have
the map ready to rock and roll.
So let's go ahead and down here below where we have this code.
I'm going to copy all of this and or I guess cut it rather and I'm going to paste it down here because
you know we don't want to try and update the user's location right before the map is ready so it's just
kind of a nice thing to do there but instead of us when we have used it's location rather than doing
a toast.
Let's go ahead and do the code of you know making one of these markers so I'm going to cut this marker
code and we'll just go ahead and paste it right here.
Now we're not doing the Sydney thing so we're going to remove that comment from here.
But basically we still need to make latitude and longitude here lat Lang and I'm just going to call
this user location K and rather than it just being a static always negative 34 and 151.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to use the location object that we have a location get latitude and
location get longitude.
So this was something that I thought maybe you know if you were doing this as a challenge you probably
would have had to google this part to say hey you know how do I get the latitude and longitude from
location.
But it also may have just been into it enough to say oh maybe it's somewhere in this location object.
So let's go ahead and copy this use a location so that we update it here and it zooms into the correct
place.
Rather than seeing marker in Sydney it's probably more appropriate if we say something like your location
so that we can go ahead and see that.
So with that in place let's go ahead and hit run here.
And we'll wait for this to pop up
OK so here comes the app and let's send in a location like this and boom like that apparently we're
right at the top of it because Pakistan and Russia.
But you know let's put maybe if I change longitude to zero.
Boom.
All sudden.
Look at that we're in the UK.
Hello Rob.
Let's go to 0 0 see what that's like.
Oh we're over here somewhere in Africa.
Maybe provide something like 10 there.
Look at that.
Moves us up just a bit and we could do 20.
That's pretty cool.
So we have a little bit of an issue right now and that's that we're always having these new locations
show up time and time again which we don't want and so our way to fix that is we need to clear the map
before we add something.
So we're just going a little bit of code right here that we can access this map so we're going to say
map.
Clear.
And that basically just gets everything out of the map so we'll go ahead.
Test this out make sure it's all OK.
All right and we'll wait for this to open up
around.
So I'm going to send a location like that will move it down 10 and look at that.
Deleted the old one moved us to the new location.
And that's really good.
So that's all great but there's still one more issue and that's you might have noticed when we open
the up to the very first time it didn't show any location and that's because you know it's waiting for
one of those updates and stuff.
So what we can do is we can get the user's last known location right when the app opens up and we can
use that in order to say hey OK you know they've given us the information.
Let's go ahead and grab that.
So the code that we would write for that is here inside of the else statement.
Right.
Assuming that we have the permission and everything's ready to rock and roll.
This is where we would want to go get the user's location and do all this stuff.
So we're going to make a new location and we'll just call this location.
And this is going to be well I guess rather than location let's be specific.
This is the last known location.
And this is going to be equal to we're going to access our location manager dot and on this we want
to do yet.
Last known location and inside of here we've got to say that we want it through the GPS location manager
got GPS GPS provider.
So that gives us the last known location.
And then at that point it's really just the same code as you know clearing the map adding these things
are going to go ahead and copy this piece down below.
And instead of location we'll use last known location so we could have gotten away if we had said last
known location or named that location.
But I think it's probably good to be clear here about what it is.
We're working with.
And let's go ahead and check this out.
So I'll run this on the app and this is important.
We want to see what it looks like when we open it up for the very first time and look at that.
It and used our last position but now you know we can go ahead and update things and I'm going to see
if I can't get us into the U.S. Let's see.
I'm going to try.
Negative 50 here you were practically there.
Let's do maybe like negative 80.
Let's get a little bit more west here so that will get us in the U.S. Now we just need to up our latitude
maybe to like 50 up to high and count it.
OK we'll come down and look at that.
We are in Illinois.
Let's do like negative 100.
Bam.
All of sudden we're in.
I don't know where we are.
Let's do 120 I want to see if I can get us in California.
Look at that.
I got this in California maybe on the border of negative 121 just to make sure.
Now we're probably at like Google headquarters or something like that in Northern California.
Anyway.
I really enjoy playing around with the stuff that I make if you haven't figured that out already.
OK.
Well hopefully you enjoyed this.
I have one more location skill that I want to teach you.
And then we're going to go make this awesome hiking app that's going to tie it all together but one
more new skill for you to learn.
Coming in the next lecture.